README.md, before:

[![License](https://img.shields.io/:license-Apache2-blue.svg)](http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0)
[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/atbashEE/atbash-utils.svg?branch=master)](https://github.com/atbashEE/atbash-utils)

utils-se : [![Maven Central](https://maven-badges.herokuapp.com/maven-central/be.atbash.utils/utils-se/badge.svg)](https://maven-badges.herokuapp.com/maven-central/be.atbash.utils/utils-se)  
utils-cdi : [![Maven Central](https://maven-badges.herokuapp.com/maven-central/be.atbash.utils/utils-cdi/badge.svg)](https://maven-badges.herokuapp.com/maven-central/be.atbash.utils/utils-cdi)  
utils-jsf : [![Maven Central](https://maven-badges.herokuapp.com/maven-central/be.atbash.utils/utils-jsf/badge.svg)](https://maven-badges.herokuapp.com/maven-central/be.atbash.utils/utils-jsf)

# atbash-utils
Utility classes for Java SE, CDI, CDI-test, ...

* Java SE 8 based!
* Automatic module name defined for Java 9+ 
* Runs on Java 8 and 11 Classpath.

For Java 7 support, you can use version 0.9.3.2.

## utils SE

* String Utils
* Collection Utils
* Top level RuntimeException and Exception for unexpected conditions
* Proxy Utils
* Class Utils
* HEX encoding
* Reading Version from MANIFEST.MF
* Check if running within CDI container.
* Resource API

## utils CDI

Requires CDI 1.1

* Programmatic retrieval of CDI instances.
* Producer for SLF4J logger.
* Manual retrieval of generic types CDI beans generated by Producer methods. 
* Fake Bean manager for testing (no need for full CDI container)

There is also a version for CDI 3.0 (Jakarta EE 9 namespace), see [here](https://github.com/atbashEE/atbash-utils/tree/jakarta).

## utils JSF

Requires JSF 2.x

* Some general useful utility methods related to JSF.
* Fake FacesContext for unit testing

There is also a version for JSF 3.0 (Jakarta EE 9 namespace), see [here](https://github.com/atbashEE/atbash-utils/tree/jakarta).

Commit message:

Release of version 1.2.0 (utils-se only!)

README.md, after:

[![License](https://img.shields.io/:license-Apache2-blue.svg)](http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0)
[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/atbashEE/atbash-utils.svg?branch=master)](https://github.com/atbashEE/atbash-utils)

utils-se : [![Maven Central](https://maven-badges.herokuapp.com/maven-central/be.atbash.utils/utils-se/badge.svg)](https://maven-badges.herokuapp.com/maven-central/be.atbash.utils/utils-se)  
utils-cdi : [![Maven Central](https://maven-badges.herokuapp.com/maven-central/be.atbash.utils/utils-cdi/badge.svg)](https://maven-badges.herokuapp.com/maven-central/be.atbash.utils/utils-cdi)  
utils-jsf : [![Maven Central](https://maven-badges.herokuapp.com/maven-central/be.atbash.utils/utils-jsf/badge.svg)](https://maven-badges.herokuapp.com/maven-central/be.atbash.utils/utils-jsf)

# atbash-utils
Utility classes for Java SE, CDI, CDI-test, ...

* Java SE 8 based!
* Automatic module name defined for Java 9+ 
* Runs on Java 8 and 11 Classpath.

For Java 7 support, you can use version 0.9.3.2.

Release of version 1.2.0 contains only _utils SE_ module.  The code repository will be split up soon since _utils SE_ change rate is much higher than the CDI and JSF one and no need to release them all the time without any real changes.

## utils SE

* String Utils
* Collection Utils
* Top level RuntimeException and Exception for unexpected conditions
* Proxy Utils
* Class Utils
* HEX encoding
* Reading Version from MANIFEST.MF
* Check if running within CDI container.
* Resource API

## utils CDI

Requires CDI 1.1

* Programmatic retrieval of CDI instances.
* Producer for SLF4J logger.
* Manual retrieval of generic types CDI beans generated by Producer methods. 
* Fake Bean manager for testing (no need for full CDI container)

There is also a version for CDI 3.0 (Jakarta EE 9 namespace), see [here](https://github.com/atbashEE/atbash-utils/tree/jakarta).

## utils JSF

Requires JSF 2.x

* Some general useful utility methods related to JSF.
* Fake FacesContext for unit testing

There is also a version for JSF 3.0 (Jakarta EE 9 namespace), see [here](https://github.com/atbashEE/atbash-utils/tree/jakarta).
