utils-se/src/main/doc/javase.adoc, before:

= Java SE utils
Rudy De Busscher <rdebusscher@gmail.com>
v0.9.3, ??/??/2018

== Release notes

=== 0.9.3

* Addition of a, extensible, resource API which can open a resource in classpath, URL target and file.
* ResourceScanner, find resources on classpath
* AnnotationUtil.

=== 0.9.2

* Added methods taking byte[] for Base64 encode/decoding
* Added HEX encoding / decoding
* Added ByteSource, taken byte[] representation of some classes and create encoded (BASE64, HEX) versions
* isEmpty() on char[]
* Define outcome of +CDICheck.withinContainer+ by defining system JVM parameter +atbash.utils.cdi.check+.

=== 0.9.1

* Renamed StringUtils#join to StringUtils.toDelimitedString
* Added TestReflectionUtils
* Added CDICheck.withinContainer
* Added ProxyUtils

Breaking changes

* Some methods of _be.atbash.util.StringUtils_ have changed parameters or are renamed.

=== 0.9.0

* Initial version with classes from various sources usable in any environment.

== Setup

Add the following artifact to your maven project file

    <dependency>
        <groupId>be.atbash.utils</groupId>
        <artifactId>utils-se</artifactId>
        <version>0.9.2</version>
    </dependency>


== Requirements

Java 7+

== Features

Utilities compiled for Java 7 and does not have any dependencies (only using SLF4J api).

The most important methods are described here. For the full list of methods, see the Javadoc or the source code.

=== BASE64

Can be used to do encoding and decoding to BASE64 for Java 7 (Only Java 8 has a JVM native implementation)

----
be.atbash.util.base64.Base64Codec#encodeToString(byte[], boolean)
----

Converts a byte array to a BASE64 encoded String. The boolean defines if urlSafe characters need to be used or not.


----
byte[] be.atbash.util.base64.Base64Codec#decode(String)
byte[] be.atbash.util.base64.Base64Codec#decode(byte[])
----

Decodes a BASE64 String/byte array into a byte array.


----
be.atbash.util.base64.Base64Codec#isBase64Encoded(String)
be.atbash.util.base64.Base64Codec#isBase64Encoded(byte[])
----

Verifies if the String/byte array is a valid Base64 value.

=== HEX

Converts to and from HEX encoded Strings.

----
byte[] be.atbash.util.codec.Hex.encodeToString(byte[])
----

Converts a byte array to a HEX encoded String.


----
byte[] be.atbash.util.codec.Hex.decode(String)
----

Converts the Hex representation to a byte array. Throws an _IllegalArgumentException_ when the value isn't a HEX encoded value.

=== ByteSource

This is an interface which provides a source of bytes which can be used to create a BASE64 or HEX representation from it.

The SE Utils project provide an implementation with support for ++File++ and ++InputStream++ next to the obvious String and char array.

A ByteSource can be created by the following snippet

----
  ByteSource.creator.bytes(data);
----

Where _data_ is an instance of one of the supported types as explained above.

When you need you need to support some additional types, which also can be converted to a byte array, you can use the SPI for this purpose.

Start by implementing the interface ++be.atbash.util.codec.ByteSourceCreator++ and define it as a service by specifying the fully qualified class name in the file _/META-INF/services/be.atbash.util.codec.ByteSourceCreator_ .

That way, your creator is used by the statement _ByteSource.creator.bytes()_ and thus your logic is executed.

Your custom creator can use instances of ++DefaultByteSource++ or an implementation of the interface ++ByteSource++.

=== Instantiations

The dynamic instantiation of classes is important when you define the class name within configuration values.

With the **ClassUtils** utility you can verify if the class name effectively exists and instantiate it with some arguments.

The classes, but also the resources, are searched in the following order

1. context classloader attached to the current thread
2. classloader who has loaded the ClassUtils class
3. system class loader


----
be.atbash.util.reflection.ClassUtils#isAvailable(String)
----

Verifies if the class defined by its FQCN (a fully qualified class name which is package name and class name) is found by one of the 3 class loaders.


----
be.atbash.util.reflection.ClassUtils#newInstance(String)
be.atbash.util.reflection.ClassUtils#newInstance(Class)
----

Creates an instance of the class (specified by the FQCN or the class instance) using the no-args constructor.
When such a constructor is not available or there was an _Exception_ thrown during the instantiation of the class, an **be.atbash.util.reflection.InstantiationException** is thrown.


----
be.atbash.util.reflection.ClassUtils#newInstance(String, Object...)
be.atbash.util.reflection.ClassUtils#newInstance(Class, Object...)
----

Creates an instance of the class (specified by the FQCN or the class instance) using a Constructor which matches the arguments.

The _Constructor_ which will be used to instantiate the class is not determined by the _Class.getConstructor(argTypes)_ method as it doesn't work when one of the arguments is _null_. The following algorithm is used to find the _Constructor_.

1. Loop over all __Constructor__s
2. Consider a _Constructor_ when it has the same number of arguments
3. Check if the argument types have the same class (using _equals_) as the parameter type. When the argument is _null_, it is considered as a match.
4. When no _Constructor_ is found, all __Constructor__s with the correct number of arguments is verified again but now a less strict match is used (using _isAssignableFrom_ to allow subtypes)
5. When there is not exactly 1 Constructor found, an **be.atbash.util.reflection.NoConstructorFoundException** is thrown.

When an _Exception_ is thrown during the instantiation of the class, an **be.atbash.util.reflection.InstantiationException** is thrown.


----
be.atbash.util.reflection.ClassUtils#getResourceAsStream(String)
----

Returns the resource using the 3 class loaders as described above.

=== Resource API

On various occasions, you need to retrieve the contents of a resource. The resource can be located on the classpath, on the file system, accessible with HTTP etc ...

When you are reading some fixed resources from a certain type like classpath, then you can do it of course in a very performant way using the dedicated methods.
But when you are reading some configuration values, for which the location can be changed by the developer at runtime, it might by a good idea to have some kind of API available for this.

With the class **be.atbash.util.resource.ResourceUtil** you are able to read a resource from multiple locations. In the sense that for example by using prefixes, we can indicate where the resource needs to be searched. The most obvious prefix is of course **http://** for a remote resources.

The following methods are defined on the class.

----
boolean resourceUtil.isSupported(java.lang.String);
----

Can be called to determine if the resource locator is supported by the API. Because it is extensible, see further on, it is possible to add custom location types. Method is mostly used by the internal implementation by other methods.

----
boolean resourceUtil.resourceExists(java.lang.String);
----

Determines if the resource exists and can be read.

----
InputStream resourceUtil.getStream(java.lang.String);
----

Return the _InputStream_ for the resource. The method is also allowed to return null when it not able to open.

For the above methods, there exists also an overloaded variant which takes a _Object_ as parameter. This is the context to which the resource location is constrained. It is not used by the default implementations, but a custom implementations can use it for retrieving resources from the ServletContext for example.

The Resource API can be accessed from the singleton **ResourceUtil** retrieved by _ResourceUtil.getInstance()_.  When you also add the Atbash CDI utils, you can also inject an instance.

==== Resource API extensions

By default, the following implementations are supported

- ClassPath resources, with prefix _classpath:_.
- URL resources, with prefix _http:_.
- File resources, can be explicitly stated by using _file:_ but not needed.

Other, custom, implementations can be created by implementing the **be.atbash.util.resource.ResourceReader** interface.  The class must be registered for loading with the ServiceLoader mechanism (use file /META-INF/services/be.atbash.util.resource.ResourceReader file)
and the class must have the annotation **be.atbash.util.ordered.Order** to determine the position within the list of all known readers.

Please use a positive value for your custom implementation for not interfering with the default implementations.

The interface has the following methods, corresponding to the one explained above.

----
boolean canRead(String, Object);
boolean exists(String, Object);
InputStream load(String, Object) throws IOException;
----

Be aware that the methods _exists()_ and _load()_ can be called also for resources which cannot be handled by the resource reader. So check the String parameter if it contains a prefix for example which indicates that the resource can be handled.

=== Resource Scanner (since v0.9.3)

Based on the org.reflection code, but a very limited version which can scan for resources on classpath.

The ResourceScanner makes it possible to find all resource files within a certain directory within the classpath.

Basic usage

----
   ResourceScanner scanner = ResourceScanner.getInstance();
   Pattern pattern = Pattern.compile("someDirectory" + ".*");
   Set<String> resources = scanner.getResources(pattern)
----

The above example returns all resources (non class resources) in the _someDirectory_ directory and all subdirectories.

Some important things to know

- The resources within the META-INF directory are excluded.
- JAR on the classpath are only taken into account when it contains a Manifest file (_/META-INF/MANIFEST.MF_)

Another useful method in some situation are the _geResourcePaths()_. They return the actual location (on the drive) of the resource.

If you notice that scanning the resources takes a lot of time, you can increase the performance by supplying an instance of an _ExecutorService_ so that classpath URL are scanned in a multi-threaded fashion.

You can evaluate if a multi-threaded apporach is required by looking at a log entry (info level) in the format of

    Reflections took 69 ms to scan 35 urls, producing 1843 keys and 1844 values

If you want to supply an _ExecutorService_, implement the **ResourceWalkerExecutorServiceProvider** and define it through the _service Loader_ mechanism.  The interface has 1 method which needs to return the instance (but is allowed to return null)

    ExecutorService getExecutorService();

=== Reading version

With the class **be.atbash.util.version.VersionReader**, you can read the version information stored within the _META-INF/MANIFEST.MF_ file.

Define the version information by configuring the _maven-jar-plugin_ or _maven-war-plugin_ in the maven build section.

----
    <plugin>
        <groupId>org.apache.maven.plugins</groupId>
        <artifactId>maven-jar-plugin</artifactId>
        <version>2.5</version>
        <executions>
            <execution>
                <id>manifest</id>
                <goals>
                    <goal>jar</goal>
                </goals>
            </execution>
        </executions>
        <configuration>
            <archive>
                <manifestEntries>
                    <Release-Version>${project.parent.version}</Release-Version>
                    <buildTime>${maven.build.timestamp}</buildTime>
                </manifestEntries>
            </archive>
        </configuration>
    </plugin>
----

This information can be read by using the following snippet

----
   VersionReader versionReader = new versionReader("atbash-config");
   versionReader.getReleaseVersion();
   versionReader.getBuildTime();
----

The constructor argument is the artifact from which we want to read this information (actually it is the first part of the name of the jar file but these are in most cases the same).

=== Base exceptions

There are 3 exception classes defined which can be handy in all applications.

* be.atbash.util.exception.AtbashException

This is a _RuntimeException_ used as a parent class for all Atbash defined exceptions. It makes it possible to define a generic Exception handler (within JSF or JAX-RS) to handle all the Exceptions uniformly (logging, showing info to end user, ...)

* be.atbash.util.exception.AtbashIllegalActionException

This exception is thrown when the Atbash code detects a wrong usage of the framework by the developer. An example is a usage of a non-existing URL filter name in the Octopus framework (maybe a typo).

It is recommended that the error message starts with a code (like _(OCT_DEV_001)_ ) and the documentation describes then the situation and what actually is done wrong and how it can be fixed.

* be.atbash.util.exception.AtbashUnexpectedException

Can be used to convert a checked exception (like an IOException) into an _AtbashException_ so that it can be handled by the general exception handler. Most checked exceptions never occur during the execution of the application, but they need to be caught or thrown.

=== String utils

----
be.atbash.util.StringUtils.hasText(String)
be.atbash.util.StringUtils.isEmpty(String)
----

Verifies if the String contains something meaning full (something different then whitespace) or not.

When the argument is _null_, empty String (_""_) or contains only whitespace (_"  "_) it is considered as empty.


----
be.atbash.util.StringUtils.hasLength(String)
----

Verifies if the String contains characters or not but handles null as the empty String. Whitespace characters are counted as a real character.


----
be.atbash.util.StringUtils.clean(String)
----

Cleans the argument, this are the rules

[width="70%",options="header"]
|======================
| Argument        | Result
| null      | null
| ""      | null
| _other cases_      | .trim()
|======================


----
be.atbash.util.StringUtils.startsWithIgnoreCase(String, String)
----

Verifies if the String starts with a certain prefix, case insensitive. Method handles correctly the situation where one or both arguments are _null_.


----
be.atbash.util.StringUtils.split(String)
----

Break down the String within items, delimited by _,_ by default (there exist an overloaded method to define also the delimiter.  You can use _"_ to define the start and end of an item. The following example has thus only 2 items

----
key , "value1,value2"
----

The quotes are removed and the item is trimmed before the placed in the return array.

----
be.atbash.util.StringUtils.toDelimitedString(Collection, String)
be.atbash.util.StringUtils.toDelimitedString(Object[], String)
----

Converts the collections or array of Objects to a String where each item is separated by the 2nd parameter.

=== Collection utils

----
be.atbash.util.CollectionUtils.asSet(E...)
be.atbash.util.CollectionUtils.asList(E...)
----

Returns the items specified in the argument as _Set_ or _List_ respectively.


----
be.atbash.util.CollectionUtils.isEmpty(Collection)
be.atbash.util.CollectionUtils.isEmpty(Map)
----

Verifies if the argument is null or contains no elements.

----
be.atbash.util.CollectionUtils.size(Collection)
be.atbash.util.CollectionUtils.size(Map)
----

Returns the size of the _Collection_ or _Map_ but handles null argument correctly.

=== Proxy Utils

A few methods related to proxied classes when they are generated by (CDI) libraries.

----
be.atbash.util.ProxyUtils.isProxiedClass(Class)
----

Test if the class is a proxy class based on the name. Because proxied classes have a specific suffix.

----
be.atbash.util.ProxyUtils.getUnproxiedClass(Class)
----

Returns the 'real' class for the proxied class by returning the super class of the parameter. When the parameter isn't a proxied class, it return the parameter itself.

----
be.atbash.util.ProxyUtils.getClassName(Class)
----

Returns the 'real' class name for the parameter. When it is a proxied class, it return the name of the super class, otherwise it returns the name of the class itself.

=== AnnotationUtil

With the AnnotationUtil.getAnnotation one can search if the class or one of his parent has an annotation defined on it.

----
   be.atbash.util.AnnotationUtil.getAnnotation(aClass,Annotation);
----

The difference with the _Class.getAnnotation_ method is that also the object hierarchy is searched until found or the top level Object is reached.


=== CDICheck

Probably only useable in advanced use cases where you create a library which must be able to run within plain Java SE and within a CDI container.

----
be.atbash.util.reflection.CDICheck.withinContainer
----

This methods return true or false depending on the context and library can select code path accordingly (like retrieving beans through CDI or ServiceLoader)

=== TestReflectionUtil

Utility class for unit tests to help with injection and setting values of instances used during the test.

Add the following artifact to your maven project file

    <dependency>
        <groupId>be.atbash.utils</groupId>
        <artifactId>utils-se</artifactId>
        <version>0.9.2</version>
        <classifier>tests</classifier>
        <scope>test</scope>
    </dependency>

When you are using a instance of a class during your unit test, and that class should have some dependencies (which are normally set by some kind of injection), the _injectDependencies_ can be very useful in those situations.

    public class Foo {

       private Bar bar;

    }

Then within a test you can have the following code;


    Foo foo = new Foo();
    TestReflectionUtils.injectDependencies(foo, new Bar());

The injection is done based on the compatible type assignments. So you can also inject a subclass of Foo in the same manner (thus also a Mock created by Mockito for instance)

However you should always consider the default supported functionality from Mockito for example.

----
@RunWith(MockitoJUnitRunner.class)
public class FooTest {

   @Mock
   private Bar barMock;

   @InjectMocks
   private Foo foo;

}
----

Other useful methods in the class _TestReflectionUtils_

* setFieldValue() sets the value of a specific property in an instance (when injectDependencies could inject it into multiple properties because they have assignable types)
* getValueOf() return the value of property by name (when their is no getter for instance)
* resetOf() sets the property with a null value.

Commit message:

Additional UrlType Handling configurable for ResourceScanner

utils-se/src/main/doc/javase.adoc, after:

= Java SE utils
Rudy De Busscher <rdebusscher@gmail.com>
v0.9.3, ??/??/2018

== Release notes

=== 0.9.3

* Addition of a, extensible, resource API which can open a resource in classpath, URL target and file.
* ResourceScanner, find resources on classpath
* AnnotationUtil.

=== 0.9.2

* Added methods taking byte[] for Base64 encode/decoding
* Added HEX encoding / decoding
* Added ByteSource, taken byte[] representation of some classes and create encoded (BASE64, HEX) versions
* isEmpty() on char[]
* Define outcome of +CDICheck.withinContainer+ by defining system JVM parameter +atbash.utils.cdi.check+.

=== 0.9.1

* Renamed StringUtils#join to StringUtils.toDelimitedString
* Added TestReflectionUtils
* Added CDICheck.withinContainer
* Added ProxyUtils

Breaking changes

* Some methods of _be.atbash.util.StringUtils_ have changed parameters or are renamed.

=== 0.9.0

* Initial version with classes from various sources usable in any environment.

== Setup

Add the following artifact to your maven project file

    <dependency>
        <groupId>be.atbash.utils</groupId>
        <artifactId>utils-se</artifactId>
        <version>0.9.2</version>
    </dependency>


== Requirements

Java 7+

== Features

Utilities compiled for Java 7 and does not have any dependencies (only using SLF4J api).

The most important methods are described here. For the full list of methods, see the Javadoc or the source code.

=== BASE64

Can be used to do encoding and decoding to BASE64 for Java 7 (Only Java 8 has a JVM native implementation)

----
be.atbash.util.base64.Base64Codec#encodeToString(byte[], boolean)
----

Converts a byte array to a BASE64 encoded String. The boolean defines if urlSafe characters need to be used or not.


----
byte[] be.atbash.util.base64.Base64Codec#decode(String)
byte[] be.atbash.util.base64.Base64Codec#decode(byte[])
----

Decodes a BASE64 String/byte array into a byte array.


----
be.atbash.util.base64.Base64Codec#isBase64Encoded(String)
be.atbash.util.base64.Base64Codec#isBase64Encoded(byte[])
----

Verifies if the String/byte array is a valid Base64 value.

=== HEX

Converts to and from HEX encoded Strings.

----
byte[] be.atbash.util.codec.Hex.encodeToString(byte[])
----

Converts a byte array to a HEX encoded String.


----
byte[] be.atbash.util.codec.Hex.decode(String)
----

Converts the Hex representation to a byte array. Throws an _IllegalArgumentException_ when the value isn't a HEX encoded value.

=== ByteSource

This is an interface which provides a source of bytes which can be used to create a BASE64 or HEX representation from it.

The SE Utils project provide an implementation with support for ++File++ and ++InputStream++ next to the obvious String and char array.

A ByteSource can be created by the following snippet

----
  ByteSource.creator.bytes(data);
----

Where _data_ is an instance of one of the supported types as explained above.

When you need you need to support some additional types, which also can be converted to a byte array, you can use the SPI for this purpose.

Start by implementing the interface ++be.atbash.util.codec.ByteSourceCreator++ and define it as a service by specifying the fully qualified class name in the file _/META-INF/services/be.atbash.util.codec.ByteSourceCreator_ .

That way, your creator is used by the statement _ByteSource.creator.bytes()_ and thus your logic is executed.

Your custom creator can use instances of ++DefaultByteSource++ or an implementation of the interface ++ByteSource++.

=== Instantiations

The dynamic instantiation of classes is important when you define the class name within configuration values.

With the **ClassUtils** utility you can verify if the class name effectively exists and instantiate it with some arguments.

The classes, but also the resources, are searched in the following order

1. context classloader attached to the current thread
2. classloader who has loaded the ClassUtils class
3. system class loader


----
be.atbash.util.reflection.ClassUtils#isAvailable(String)
----

Verifies if the class defined by its FQCN (a fully qualified class name which is package name and class name) is found by one of the 3 class loaders.


----
be.atbash.util.reflection.ClassUtils#newInstance(String)
be.atbash.util.reflection.ClassUtils#newInstance(Class)
----

Creates an instance of the class (specified by the FQCN or the class instance) using the no-args constructor.
When such a constructor is not available or there was an _Exception_ thrown during the instantiation of the class, an **be.atbash.util.reflection.InstantiationException** is thrown.


----
be.atbash.util.reflection.ClassUtils#newInstance(String, Object...)
be.atbash.util.reflection.ClassUtils#newInstance(Class, Object...)
----

Creates an instance of the class (specified by the FQCN or the class instance) using a Constructor which matches the arguments.

The _Constructor_ which will be used to instantiate the class is not determined by the _Class.getConstructor(argTypes)_ method as it doesn't work when one of the arguments is _null_. The following algorithm is used to find the _Constructor_.

1. Loop over all __Constructor__s
2. Consider a _Constructor_ when it has the same number of arguments
3. Check if the argument types have the same class (using _equals_) as the parameter type. When the argument is _null_, it is considered as a match.
4. When no _Constructor_ is found, all __Constructor__s with the correct number of arguments is verified again but now a less strict match is used (using _isAssignableFrom_ to allow subtypes)
5. When there is not exactly 1 Constructor found, an **be.atbash.util.reflection.NoConstructorFoundException** is thrown.

When an _Exception_ is thrown during the instantiation of the class, an **be.atbash.util.reflection.InstantiationException** is thrown.


----
be.atbash.util.reflection.ClassUtils#getResourceAsStream(String)
----

Returns the resource using the 3 class loaders as described above.

=== Resource API

On various occasions, you need to retrieve the contents of a resource. The resource can be located on the classpath, on the file system, accessible with HTTP etc ...

When you are reading some fixed resources from a certain type like classpath, then you can do it of course in a very performant way using the dedicated methods.
But when you are reading some configuration values, for which the location can be changed by the developer at runtime, it might by a good idea to have some kind of API available for this.

With the class **be.atbash.util.resource.ResourceUtil** you are able to read a resource from multiple locations. In the sense that for example by using prefixes, we can indicate where the resource needs to be searched. The most obvious prefix is of course **http://** for a remote resources.

The following methods are defined on the class.

----
boolean resourceUtil.isSupported(java.lang.String);
----

Can be called to determine if the resource locator is supported by the API. Because it is extensible, see further on, it is possible to add custom location types. Method is mostly used by the internal implementation by other methods.

----
boolean resourceUtil.resourceExists(java.lang.String);
----

Determines if the resource exists and can be read.

----
InputStream resourceUtil.getStream(java.lang.String);
----

Return the _InputStream_ for the resource. The method is also allowed to return null when it not able to open.

For the above methods, there exists also an overloaded variant which takes a _Object_ as parameter. This is the context to which the resource location is constrained. It is not used by the default implementations, but a custom implementations can use it for retrieving resources from the ServletContext for example.

The Resource API can be accessed from the singleton **ResourceUtil** retrieved by _ResourceUtil.getInstance()_.  When you also add the Atbash CDI utils, you can also inject an instance.

==== Resource API extensions

By default, the following implementations are supported

- ClassPath resources, with prefix _classpath:_.
- URL resources, with prefix _http:_.
- File resources, can be explicitly stated by using _file:_ but not needed.

Other, custom, implementations can be created by implementing the **be.atbash.util.resource.ResourceReader** interface.  The class must be registered for loading with the ServiceLoader mechanism (use file /META-INF/services/be.atbash.util.resource.ResourceReader file)
and the class must have the annotation **be.atbash.util.ordered.Order** to determine the position within the list of all known readers.

Please use a positive value for your custom implementation for not interfering with the default implementations.

The interface has the following methods, corresponding to the one explained above.

----
boolean canRead(String, Object);
boolean exists(String, Object);
InputStream load(String, Object) throws IOException;
----

Be aware that the methods _exists()_ and _load()_ can be called also for resources which cannot be handled by the resource reader. So check the String parameter if it contains a prefix for example which indicates that the resource can be handled.

=== Resource Scanner (since v0.9.3)

Based on the org.reflection code, but a very limited version which can scan for resources on the classpath.

The ResourceScanner makes it possible to find all resource files within a certain directory within the classpath.

Basic usage

----
   ResourceScanner scanner = ResourceScanner.getInstance();
   Pattern pattern = Pattern.compile("someDirectory" + ".*");
   Set<String> resources = scanner.getResources(pattern)
----

The above example returns all resources (non class resources) in the _someDirectory_ directory and all subdirectories.

Some important things to know

- The resources within the META-INF directory are excluded.
- JARs on the classpath are only taken into account when it contains a Manifest file (_/META-INF/MANIFEST.MF_) (Java SE only)

Another useful method in some situations are the _geResourcePaths()_ methods. They return the actual location (the URL) of the resource.

If you notice that scanning of the resources takes a lot of time, you can increase the performance by supplying an instance of an _ExecutorService_ so that classpath URL are scanned in a multi-threaded fashion.

You can evaluate if a multi-threaded approach is required by looking at the log entry (info level) in the format of

    Reflections took 69 ms to scan 35 urls, producing 1843 keys and 1844 values

If you want to supply an _ExecutorService_, implement the **ResourceWalkerExecutorServiceProvider** and define it through the _service loader_ mechanism.  The interface has 1 method which needs to return the instance (but is allowed to return null)

    ExecutorService getExecutorService();

By default, the _ResourceScanner_ supports directories, zip and jar files and the JBoss VFS protocol.  Additional types can be registered by calling the method:

----
   ResourceScanner.registerURLType(UrlType);
----

This needs to be done of course before the first call to **ResourceScanner.getInstance()** as this initializes the scanning.

=== Reading version

With the class **be.atbash.util.version.VersionReader**, you can read the version information stored within the _META-INF/MANIFEST.MF_ file.

Define the version information by configuring the _maven-jar-plugin_ or _maven-war-plugin_ in the maven build section.

----
    <plugin>
        <groupId>org.apache.maven.plugins</groupId>
        <artifactId>maven-jar-plugin</artifactId>
        <version>2.5</version>
        <executions>
            <execution>
                <id>manifest</id>
                <goals>
                    <goal>jar</goal>
                </goals>
            </execution>
        </executions>
        <configuration>
            <archive>
                <manifestEntries>
                    <Release-Version>${project.parent.version}</Release-Version>
                    <buildTime>${maven.build.timestamp}</buildTime>
                </manifestEntries>
            </archive>
        </configuration>
    </plugin>
----

This information can be read by using the following snippet

----
   VersionReader versionReader = new versionReader("atbash-config");
   versionReader.getReleaseVersion();
   versionReader.getBuildTime();
----

The constructor argument is the artifact from which we want to read this information (actually it is the first part of the name of the jar file but these are in most cases the same).

=== Base exceptions

There are 3 exception classes defined which can be handy in all applications.

* be.atbash.util.exception.AtbashException

This is a _RuntimeException_ used as a parent class for all Atbash defined exceptions. It makes it possible to define a generic Exception handler (within JSF or JAX-RS) to handle all the Exceptions uniformly (logging, showing info to end user, ...)

* be.atbash.util.exception.AtbashIllegalActionException

This exception is thrown when the Atbash code detects a wrong usage of the framework by the developer. An example is a usage of a non-existing URL filter name in the Octopus framework (maybe a typo).

It is recommended that the error message starts with a code (like _(OCT_DEV_001)_ ) and the documentation describes then the situation and what actually is done wrong and how it can be fixed.

* be.atbash.util.exception.AtbashUnexpectedException

Can be used to convert a checked exception (like an IOException) into an _AtbashException_ so that it can be handled by the general exception handler. Most checked exceptions never occur during the execution of the application, but they need to be caught or thrown.

=== String utils

----
be.atbash.util.StringUtils.hasText(String)
be.atbash.util.StringUtils.isEmpty(String)
----

Verifies if the String contains something meaning full (something different then whitespace) or not.

When the argument is _null_, empty String (_""_) or contains only whitespace (_"  "_) it is considered as empty.


----
be.atbash.util.StringUtils.hasLength(String)
----

Verifies if the String contains characters or not but handles null as the empty String. Whitespace characters are counted as a real character.


----
be.atbash.util.StringUtils.clean(String)
----

Cleans the argument, this are the rules

[width="70%",options="header"]
|======================
| Argument        | Result
| null      | null
| ""      | null
| _other cases_      | .trim()
|======================


----
be.atbash.util.StringUtils.startsWithIgnoreCase(String, String)
----

Verifies if the String starts with a certain prefix, case insensitive. Method handles correctly the situation where one or both arguments are _null_.


----
be.atbash.util.StringUtils.split(String)
----

Break down the String within items, delimited by _,_ by default (there exist an overloaded method to define also the delimiter.  You can use _"_ to define the start and end of an item. The following example has thus only 2 items

----
key , "value1,value2"
----

The quotes are removed and the item is trimmed before the placed in the return array.

----
be.atbash.util.StringUtils.toDelimitedString(Collection, String)
be.atbash.util.StringUtils.toDelimitedString(Object[], String)
----

Converts the collections or array of Objects to a String where each item is separated by the 2nd parameter.

=== Collection utils

----
be.atbash.util.CollectionUtils.asSet(E...)
be.atbash.util.CollectionUtils.asList(E...)
----

Returns the items specified in the argument as _Set_ or _List_ respectively.


----
be.atbash.util.CollectionUtils.isEmpty(Collection)
be.atbash.util.CollectionUtils.isEmpty(Map)
----

Verifies if the argument is null or contains no elements.

----
be.atbash.util.CollectionUtils.size(Collection)
be.atbash.util.CollectionUtils.size(Map)
----

Returns the size of the _Collection_ or _Map_ but handles null argument correctly.

=== Proxy Utils

A few methods related to proxied classes when they are generated by (CDI) libraries.

----
be.atbash.util.ProxyUtils.isProxiedClass(Class)
----

Test if the class is a proxy class based on the name. Because proxied classes have a specific suffix.

----
be.atbash.util.ProxyUtils.getUnproxiedClass(Class)
----

Returns the 'real' class for the proxied class by returning the super class of the parameter. When the parameter isn't a proxied class, it return the parameter itself.

----
be.atbash.util.ProxyUtils.getClassName(Class)
----

Returns the 'real' class name for the parameter. When it is a proxied class, it return the name of the super class, otherwise it returns the name of the class itself.

=== AnnotationUtil

With the AnnotationUtil.getAnnotation one can search if the class or one of his parent has an annotation defined on it.

----
   be.atbash.util.AnnotationUtil.getAnnotation(aClass,Annotation);
----

The difference with the _Class.getAnnotation_ method is that also the object hierarchy is searched until found or the top level Object is reached.


=== CDICheck

Probably only useable in advanced use cases where you create a library which must be able to run within plain Java SE and within a CDI container.

----
be.atbash.util.reflection.CDICheck.withinContainer
----

This methods return true or false depending on the context and library can select code path accordingly (like retrieving beans through CDI or ServiceLoader)

=== TestReflectionUtil

Utility class for unit tests to help with injection and setting values of instances used during the test.

Add the following artifact to your maven project file

    <dependency>
        <groupId>be.atbash.utils</groupId>
        <artifactId>utils-se</artifactId>
        <version>0.9.2</version>
        <classifier>tests</classifier>
        <scope>test</scope>
    </dependency>

When you are using a instance of a class during your unit test, and that class should have some dependencies (which are normally set by some kind of injection), the _injectDependencies_ can be very useful in those situations.

    public class Foo {

       private Bar bar;

    }

Then within a test you can have the following code;


    Foo foo = new Foo();
    TestReflectionUtils.injectDependencies(foo, new Bar());

The injection is done based on the compatible type assignments. So you can also inject a subclass of Foo in the same manner (thus also a Mock created by Mockito for instance)

However you should always consider the default supported functionality from Mockito for example.

----
@RunWith(MockitoJUnitRunner.class)
public class FooTest {

   @Mock
   private Bar barMock;

   @InjectMocks
   private Foo foo;

}
----

Other useful methods in the class _TestReflectionUtils_

* setFieldValue() sets the value of a specific property in an instance (when injectDependencies could inject it into multiple properties because they have assignable types)
* getValueOf() return the value of property by name (when their is no getter for instance)
* resetOf() sets the property with a null value.
